Initially follow iTAG paper closely but using fictional domains. We want an easy baseline to validate the pipeline and figure out rough model abilities. Probably 3-10 nodes per graph, no noise in the dataset, one sentence per edge, causal language explicit. 

One Q for later is if following iTAG then since we are using a fictional domain we can’t do the same transferability analyses to ensure our benchmark is actually useful / answers the same questions real datasets would. 

We can eval edge orientation, edge discovery (we give variable names), and full graph discovery (no variable names or edges given). 

When we add noise levels it would be good to try to find out / estimate these noise levels in real documents so we know at which levels the LLMs need to be strong. This is probably hard.

Real world graphs and documents are large so eval on small ones may not be that meaningful, though it may expose a real LLM weakness. 

Also would we ever actually want an LLM to create a full graph itself vs we have some partial graph and documents and we want the LLM to add / verify based on the documents?

We probably need a strong model to validate the documents (maybe a cheaper one can do generation).

Can add a memorisation control at some point. 

itag experiments 2 and 3 not feasible directly but we do still want to do some experiments to make sure our benchmark is useful in the real world. 

Do we want isolated nodes?

Do we just want DAGs?

Maybe we have a set of 10 or so small graphs hand designed to cover causal structures we specifically want to test. Then a set of sampled larger graphs.

Probably its best to do real world, fictional, and anti-real world. For anti-real world if we flip a whole graph then model can notice everything is reversed. If we flip randomly we may not have a DAG - this could be fine? We could also sample acyclic permutations.

For the small set we can enumerate all isomorphic DAGs for n=3,4 (only 6+31 total), precedent for this in Corr2Cause (Jin et al., ICLR 2024).

If we do the MEC thing then maybe we want to use a semi fictional domain. Some real and some new made up ones since that is similar to real novel science.

Do we ever want to test the LLMs prior ability? What if document has a typo or says something wrong that is well known?